Hi everybody, welcome back to the Data Science Hangout. I'm Rachel Dempsey, I lead Customer
Marketing at Posit. Posit is the open source data science company building tools for the
individual team and enterprise. I'm so happy to see all of you here today with us. The
Hangout is our open space to hear what's going on in the world of data across different industries,
chat about data science leadership, and connect with others facing similar things as you.
We get together here every Thursday at the same time, same place, unless it's a holiday.
If you're watching this as a recording in the future, you can add it to your own calendar
if you want to join us live. Just make sure it adds it for 12 Eastern Time so that you
can join live. We know people really enjoy connecting with other attendees in the chat
too, so if you are interested in connecting with others, I want to encourage you to say
hello in the chat and briefly introduce yourself, your role, where you're based. I will rely
on our Posit people to mute people who come unmuted accidentally. Also, when you're introducing
yourselves in the chat, I'd love to hear if you'll be at Posit Conference in person.
I want to start saying this in the weeks leading up to conference because one of my favorite
things last year was seeing how many people from the Hangout actually knew each other
already when they got to the conference. I just love to see that. We're all dedicated
to keeping this a friendly and welcoming space for everyone and love to hear from you no
matter your years of experience, titles, industry, or languages that you work in. I'll add real
quickly here, also, if you're hiring for any roles, feel free to share those in the chat.
Not spammy at all to us. We love to see the job postings there. Also, 100% okay if you
want to just listen in today or just chat with people in the Zoom chat. There's also
three ways you can jump in and ask questions or provide your own perspective. Raise your
hand on Zoom. I can call on you to jump in. If you don't know where that is, there's a
little reactions button in the Zoom bar below. That's where you raise your hand. You can
put questions in the Zoom chat and just put a little star next to it or asterisk if it's
something you want me to read. Maybe you're in a coffee shop or something. Otherwise,
I'll call on you to introduce yourself and add some context. Third, we have a Slido link
where you can ask questions anonymously, too. I'm sure Curtis or someone else from Posit
has just shared that in the chat as well. Thank you. Thank you to my co-hosts there
in the background. I'm so excited to be joined by actually two co-hosts today, Matt and Ramil,
focused on clinical affairs and data analytics at Neuros Medical. Matt and Ramil, to get
us started, can I have you both introduce yourselves and share a little bit about each
of your roles? Yeah. So my name is Matthew Iorio. I'm the senior manager of clinical
affairs and data analytics at Neuros Medical. I joined the company in 2004 as an intern
and now kind of help to oversee all patient reported outcome data collection as well as
clinical data science activities within the company. It'll be great to talk about with
everybody today is kind of the evolution of this department as it's grown in parallel
with our recently completed Quest IDE trial and the different kinds of data analytics
and data science type activities we have going on there in a small neuromodulation startup.
So great to be here with everybody. Thank you. And Ramil, you want to introduce
yourself, too? Yeah. So my name is Ramil. I do data analysis
here at Neuros, help build tools and data pipelines here to really support our clinical
operations team. Yeah. And it's cool to be doing this.
Thank you both for joining us. And so I guess to kind of kick things off here, I know you
just mentioned about building this team, Matt. Can you tell me a little bit about the founding
of the company's clinical data department from the ground up?
Yeah. So I joined in 2014 as an intern right when our pivotal phase three trial, the Quest
study started. And as we were going through that, kind of the kind of the foundation there
was the way we were collecting data at the time essentially was we had patients reporting
their pain levels and medication use on what we had, what we had designed as an e-diary,
right? So they had a cell phone and an app on that phone that would collect data. And
typically the two ways of data collection were from that as well as paper case report
forms once we started the trial. So not to date ourselves there, but we used paper case
report forms at the sites to gather information on the patients when they would come in for
their visits and programming sessions for the Alteus device.
One other thing to kind of, I think, give people some background if they're not familiar
with neuros, just to kind of kind of lay that groundwork. We're a clinical stage neuromodulation
company. We're developing the Alteus system to help patients with chronic lower limb post
amputation pain. So these patients would be enrolled and implanted in our trial that would
not receive adequate pain relief for any other kind of standards of care, be it opiates or
gabapentanoids or any other kinds of surgeries. And in the US alone, we have around 185,000
amputations every year, mainly a lot of those due to cardiovascular disease and diabetes,
and as well as trauma for various kinds of accidents and things like that. So there's
a high demand and high levels of these patients have chronic pain post amputation. So the
Alteus system is our technology to kind of ideally relieve their pain and restore their
lives, as we say at Neuros. And when patients would use the device, we would have them report
this information in their e-diaries. So they would report multiple times a day, every single day.
And then they would also report pain levels at the end of the day, as well as their medication use.
And so when we started this trial in 2014, we collected a lot of the data on the e-diary with
one of our vendors at the time, as well as paper case report forms at the sites for those particular
visits. As we evolved over time and as more and more patients enrolled, we started to see the
need also internally to have more of an operational focus around the data as well. What I mean by that
is, as probably you can imagine, as patients get implanted, we have more and more patients going
on. We have more and more study visits happening. And at the time, probably around 2020, so right
around like the height of the pandemic, the Quest study was really taken off. We had a lot of
implanted subjects and we had a lot of need to coordinate data information and coordinate
resources at the sites because we needed field staff to be supporting the sites. And we also
needed to know which patients were going to potentially be implanted and kind of the progress
of all of them. And so at that point, the clinical team, myself and other members of the team, were
getting a lot of outside requests from other departments because we needed to coordinate
to make sure that we could support those visits. So we were getting asked a lot of different
requests. And at that time, we did not have the foundation to really process these requests from
an operational point of view, traditionally using certain tools like Excel, for instance, right? So
my background is in biomedical engineering, so I have programming experience. So in 2020, I decided,
well, I got to start programming again so that we can possibly, you know, kind of keep up with
these requests so we can make sure that our patients are well supported and so are our sites
and that we have all the adequate staff there. So I randomly picked up Python in 2020.
And then as we kind of went along and we got closer to finishing quests and we knew the other
side of the data trial would be, how do we start to analyze this data along with our vendors, right,
to prepare for submission for FDA? And so we kind of need some more horsepower. We're going to need
more people that can kind of help kind of crunch these numbers, support the trial as it's coming to
a close, as well as process this information. So in 2022, we hired two clinical data employees,
both with programming experience in R. Ramil was one of them. Ramil was our first focused,
fully focused data hire that we had at Nero's. Another one of our employees kind of does a
hybrid role where he does operations, clinical operations, as well as some programming experience.
And the one thing that I realized at that point was that these guys can really program in R.
And I said, well, I'm going to move over and start to do that too. So 2022 onward,
our role has really shifted to not only supporting the close of the quest study,
but also supporting the validation efforts of our tables and figures and listings for the FDA
submission, as well as post hoc analyses as we move ahead. So currently, today at Nero's,
we're a pretty small company in general, but today, currently we have two full-time
clinical data employees with some consultants and vendors as well. We have people, certain people,
focus on the safety side and mainly us on the effectiveness, as well as, you know,
obviously kind of covering all of that data. And we're also responsible now for helping to
generate data for publications and presentations, investor meetings, and things like that. So we
kind of do it all now. And the goal is to be as good of a partner as we can cross-functionally
and always have the mission in mind that our patients come first as we develop these tools
and pipelines and efficiencies so we can move the company forward.
Thank you for that background. And Ramil, I'm curious to hear from you too about your experience
joining a company as one of the first data science hires as well.
Yeah, so it's funny because I was doing my graduate schooling for applied stats and looking
for an internship. Fortunately, Mal was able to pick me up full-time and I was able to do
both concurrently. And I will say, you know, prior to being here, it's a lot of it, you know,
a lot of it, you know, I thought was ML and AI. And really, it's the complete opposite. I think,
especially as a startup company, there's a lot of just data cleaning and some things that,
you know, you don't need ML and AI for. And apart from that, really learning about the
rigor in clinical trials and building a data team from the ground up. So being a part of that has
been, for myself, a huge learning. And yeah, continue to learn every day.
I think that's so important to stress that it's not all about AI and ML. And sometimes people
can think that looking into even some of these like big companies who are presenting here that
are not doing some of those like data cleaning activities too.
I have a few questions, but I want to make sure I'm jumping into questions that you all want to
ask here too. I know in the beginning, I get to ask a lot of mine, but I wanted to continue on
this, like starting as a first data scientist track and ask you, Matt, what were you looking
for when you're hiring and what makes a good data science hire for some of us that are
starting to hire too? Yeah, I think that's a really great question. So I kind of alluded to
it first, is that I kind of knew the need that we had. So for me, I have a pretty long history
of programming, but we needed more people that could handle that, right? To continue to increase
the quality and maintain the quality that we had and make sure that we were asserting our
clinical sites, make sure that we were helping our cross-functional partners within the company,
make sure that we could execute the trial at an extremely high level, right? And always be there
for our patients. The other thing that was important with this was that I really wanted
somebody personally that could push me to be better. And Ramil was that. Ramil also had a great
passion for using data science and analytics and his background in statistics to
help human health. So one of the things that intrigued me really about Ramil and kind of
his interview process was on his GitHub page, you know, he has family members that have various
health conditions and he was trying to solve data issues with that, you know, in his initiative as
well. And we, you know, at Neuros, top to bottom, side to side, the mission is clear about relieving
pain and restoring the lives of these patients and looking for someone as well who has that
passion to do that is really critical. I think, you know, as well that, you know, as a kind of
seeing this is, I think if you have a good foundation in programming or some of these tools,
you may not necessarily need to know the exact tool to be successful at a company,
because it's just like speaking another language. So the ability to learn and want to learn that
attention to detail and being patient focused for us was really critical for that. Obviously,
you have to have a foundation in that as well, as well as programming and a strong foundation. But,
you know, to be able to see, can you pick up the details and the data that are super critical? Can
you take the time and you have strong fundamentals? But more importantly, are you motivated? Are you
passionate about what you do? And are you passionate about helping the patients in our,
for our company? It's really critical. Absolutely. So I know you mentioned FDA submissions in the
beginning, and we have talked a lot about FDA submissions in the Hangout. And I know there's
so many different kinds as well. Can you just talk a little bit more about that process?
Yeah, so I guess at a high level, Neuros, the Alteus device is a class three medical device. So
highest level classification in terms of because of the way it's implanted in the body. And as you
could, if anybody, to kind of give everybody a picture, the Alteus system is essentially like a
generator that's implanted in the body, similar to a pacemaker, cardiac pacemaker. And then there's
an electrode that goes down and attaches to the nerve that was amputated in the lower limb.
And the device delivers high frequency electron electrical stimulation to the nerve.
And the idea is that that signal will dampen the pain signals coming from the nerve to the central
nervous system. So the patient would feel less pain. So for this kind of device, it's classified
as a class three device. It's never been on the market before. So because of that, the invasiveness
in terms of implanting the data, the implanted device, I mean, we had to go through the PMA
process for FDA submission. So that consists of obviously early on with the inventors,
Drs. Kevin Kilgore and Neelay Bhadra, developing the device in the lab, doing animal testing on it.
Then you move to like a small patient pilot, like a first in human study. So like a handful of
patients. We use that data to then catapult us to about a 10 patient pilot study. The data got
really good results. The device got really good results. That information allowed the FDA to say,
yeah, go ahead with Quest, right? So then we implanted 180 patients from that study.
And now the process after the study closed was we have to pull all of the data together
per an agreed upon statistical analysis plan with the FDA. So sponsor and FDA go back and forth on
what to include, what not to include, and why. And then you have to kind of stick to that. So
to Ramil's point, a lot of that can be more of your standard statistical analysis algorithms,
such as like logistic regression or other types of analyses, depending on things such as standard
t-tests, ANOVAs, depending on what that is, what's laid out about how analyses occur and in what
order, those kinds of things. So then our work shifted to working with our vendor at the time
to break down and analyze all of the tables, figures, and listings that we were going to submit.
So to give everybody an idea of scale, we had about nearly 235 tables, figures, and listings
that were included in our clinical study report. We had another 120 or so that were not included,
but we still included it as a supplement. You're looking at combing through about 1.8 million data
points on the diary side, 600,000 data points on the study visit side, and then information from
the device logs and patient uses around 19 million data points as well. So we're working hand-in-hand
with our vendors to go through that information, make sure that the tables, figures, and listings
matched on both sides, that we agreed based on the statistical analysis plan that these
are the numbers we should get. Interesting point here, our vendors used – at this point,
our vendors used SAS. We did it entirely in R. So we kind of were able to kind of validate it in a way
as we did the analysis there. So as everybody can imagine, you have all those tables,
figures, and listings. You have one big clinical submission along with the other modules that are
put together for, like, manufacturing and biocompatibility and all that stuff, and then
it goes to FDA, and then you enter their review process, which is outlined in the FDA compliance
program. So typically what that looks like is, you know, going back and forth, they have questions,
they conduct audits per their compliance program, they have questions about data, you have regular
meetings with them, and then eventually they come to an approval or no approval outcome.
So we're in the process of doing that.
Thank you. I see Bill had a follow-up question in the chat about using SAS. Bill, do you want
to jump in? You want me to ask? Okay. It was – well, you answered part of it. Have you used SAS
in FDA submissions, and did you feel pressure from FDA to use SAS? Can you talk a little bit
about the submission and language user? Yeah. You know, so a lot of this with the
vendor that we partnered with mainly that was responsible for the submission, they use
SAS as their standard operating language. So, you know, our expertise was in R at the time and
continues to be. So we took a very just collaborative hands-on approach with them to
basically say, okay, every table, figure, and listing that you generate that we agree on,
we're going to also validate that in R just to make sure that all the numbers align to what we
want. And also not only align to what we want, but we align based on the understanding of the
statistical analysis plan, based on the assumptions that are in there, based on the way that things
were laid up, based on also all the different cuts you were going to give the FDA. So it was
good. It was actually a positive thing, I think, and Ramil, you can certainly chime in on this,
that we had a team working together with the vendor and us internally,
doing analysis kind of also in parallel and being able to come to the same conclusion
using two different programming languages and having the same understanding of how things should go.
Rachel, can you hear me? Yes, now I can. Okay. So this is a huge thing. So what I just heard
was that a smallish company with their first product or any product for the FDA
went through all the processes, statistical analysis plan, talked to people, and at no time
was SAS even a factor except from a vendor choice. So it sounds like you could have
done the whole thing in R and have somebody else validated in SAS. I'm just on a soapbox now. So
anyway, that's just to spur this discussion. This is a huge thing for many people in large and small
companies. So it's very interesting. Yeah. Yeah, and we, you know, I think that that vendor is,
you know, they're very comfortable with using SAS, and that's kind of their go-to. So we knew
on the back end because they, you know, ultimately as well through their submission of it, right,
we knew we could just QC that and validate it on the back end with R as well. But yes, it's possible,
I believe, that if you were to do it all in R, you could do the submission. It was a big push for
that, for sure. Thank you. I see Russ has a question. There's a star there, so I'll ask it,
but it's, did I hear correctly the data was validated? If so, what was that process like?
Yeah. So when we talk validation, again, what I, what we talk about in the clinical
validation, because all the data from our patients is patient-reported, a lot of it,
so the effectiveness data, medication use. So what is reported is reported, and we capture that
reported, and we capture that in the diary. But what else got validated through that process was
the matching really of the tables, figures, and listings based on our combined understanding of
the study, the stat plan, and all of that. So if you can imagine if you're trying to
generate a table as part of your FDA submission, and let's say you're trying to
look at quality of life metrics, you want to make sure based on the assumption that you know to be
true, that the numbers with us and our vendor align with the same numbers. And I think what's
important to kind of point out here as well is that as the sponsor, we know the data better than
the vendor does as well, because we're on the ground, we're interacting with the patients,
our particular designated staff are, we're interacting with our clinical sites on a daily
basis. So we also bring that deeper understanding. But the vendor was with us for years as well.
So they get that outsider perspective as well, and they bring their own statistical,
you know, expertise to the table, because we didn't really have it, you know, when we started
with them. And when we started with them, we didn't really have that, right. But we've started
to build that out. And I think what that does for us as well, and I think Ramil can, you know,
add to that too, is I think it gives us more fruitful and meaningful conversations when we
talk with them as well as we help to manage that process and help to, you know, obviously submit
data for FDA submission.
It sounds like there's a lot of great lessons in communication and collaboration here through
your work with the vendors. And I was wondering, have any of those like lessons carried over into
the way that you work with stakeholders across the company?
Yeah, and I think that's one of the big things that we always stress. And I think that it's
always been stressed across our organization is to be a good partner. I think a data team
can really be at the forefront of helping to make really important strategic decisions,
whether it be doing, you know, clinical trial execution and helping on the operational side.
So whether you're building dashboards to help monitor adverse events in real time, for instance,
or like protocol deviations or monitoring your sites and saying, listen, that one site needs to,
obviously there might be a challenge there. We need to put more resources there
because we're seeing a lot more adverse events or something, for instance.
So you have that analytical capability. And I think, you know, for clinical data science in
general, I think you have multiple parts to that. I think this is important as well.
Amy and Ramil were just talking about this the other day. You have the data management piece,
which is super critical as well. So making sure that your clinical data that's stored is what it
should be, that it matches source documentation, that it can be verified that way. So that's one
level of verification and validation you're always doing. Then you have your data analytics piece
where, you know, the data team can be very involved and should be in terms of creating,
you know, additional metrics to kind of help monitor your study sites and your subject
performance and make decisions quicker and faster. And that can be in a dashboard, it can be a shiny
app, it can be, you know, whatever, whatever tool fits the bill for that. And then the third thing
is really the data science and the analysis on the back end, where this team takes that expertise of
the study and really kind of generates the outcomes based on what the statistical analysis plan says
you have to do. But then in addition to that, the data science piece that we talk about with
clinical trials and things like that is what new insights can you gain from that data as well that
you might not have planned for? What post-hoc analyses can you do to kind of help inform
company decisions as well? So our goal really with everything, Rachel, I think is to be,
you know, to be at the forefront of all of that and to really just be a good partner to again
continue to help our patients and to help neuros be as successful as possible to help bring this
life-changing therapy to them. So Ramil, is there anything you want to add to that?
Yeah, I see Jacob's question about how we productionized our models in R and I can
take that one on because I think it also extends from what you just talked about.
The so like R has so much touch points in our company and it's awesome because it really is like
a has a ton of utility in what we do and to be clear when we say in production we're talking
about how we use it in our team. We get source or data from our EDC and then we pipe that into
Azure databases and then from there we port it into R and then from there we run,
whether it's in R scripts or markdown, we run analyses, use it to create some shiny apps
and, you know, use it to validate as well and then from there, you know, you can port it over into
Excel or you can also bring it over to Power BI. So that's kind of how our pipeline is and
really between us, Matt and Austin, our other data guy, that's how we access our data,
how we pull it in and that's how we kind of process it. The second part of the question is
how big is our data on average? So it's around 20 million data points. I know in some companies
it's much larger but for ourselves that was that's kind of the size of the data we work with and
yeah. A lot of data for a small trial.
Yeah. Oh, sorry. Go ahead, Rachel. No, you go ahead. I was going to say, I was just going to
ask you if you had any follow-up or anything else you wanted to ask there too. I guess when I think
of productionizing a model, I sort of, I don't know, I'm kind of tunnel-visioned into thinking
of creating a script that gets automated and run on batch either, whether it be daily, weekly,
or whatever. Do you have anything like that at the company right now?
You know, a lot of that's a good question, Jacob. A lot of it now is not really automated like that.
It could be during clinical trials as well, like that would be something we'd certainly like to
implement. Now, kind of the way that we run analyses is working with our other department
partners and looking at particular analyses. So there may be new analyses that we're looking at
partners and looking at particular analyses. So there may be new scripts that are written for that
particular analysis. But if it were to ever turn into something that needed to be repeated over
and over again, that's kind of how we would probably approach it. But more, a lot of this
now is like more post hoc kind of on an as-needed basis as we kind of look to scale and move ahead.
Yeah, that makes sense. Okay. Yeah. Thanks. You're welcome. Yeah. And I appreciate the discussion on
production as well, because I know when we use the word production, it means so many different
things to so many people and so many companies. And some people are doing like amazing work in
their companies, and it never technically is called production internally. So it's interesting
to just hear how everybody describes it too. Yeah, for sure. I see, Rune, you had a question
a little bit earlier when we were talking about SAS and R. Do you want to jump in?
Oh, yeah. I did use SAS and R in Python trying to see the accuracy and the stability
between different kind of language for the insurance model. I'm just curious because I think
pharmaceutical or clinical might be a much more high, more restrict requirement for the model
stability or accuracy. So is, through you guys' comparison, is that R is more like
comparable to SAS for the accuracy or stability for the model? Yeah. So I can speak on that.
The, so the, for those that are listening that don't know what SAS is, it's a statistical
software that statisticians use. The other programming languages are, obviously, and
the benefit in using SAS is it's a validated system and it's not open source. R is, and at
least in our company, Renoir, the, when we validated our tables, it's very, at least,
it's very close with what our CRO, our vendors, what figures that they were able to get.
To the decibel point, still very close. So I can say that at least there, I mean, there wasn't
choosing R as a programming language to validate SAS didn't seem like an issue. As for Python,
I don't use Python, so I can't really speak on it. Yeah, we didn't end up using that during
the time, you know, and also more importantly for the data to ensure that we felt good with
what was put into the tables, figures, and listings. You're kind of, you know, a lot of
the data, you're kind of out to the tenths or the hundredths place, essentially. So, but I know I
saw instances where R and SAS were, you know, generating past those decimal places exactly the
same. But in our case, more importantly, it was more important that directionally the numbers were
in line and that we weren't necessarily looking at to be, needed to be accurate to like the
thousands or ten thousands place, for instance. Thank you. Ramiel, I know when we were chatting
a bit beforehand, I guess this was a few weeks ago now, we were talking about some of like people
who are just starting to get into data science and thinking back to when you first started.
Is there any advice that you'd give to somebody who's just getting started?
Yeah. So, I will say that the language of choice doesn't really matter. And as Matt knows, like,
as soon as you pick up one language, you can, it's much easier to pick up the other. That can be
kind of a roadblock, I think, for some. I chose R because I was interested in, or I was doing my
master's in stats, and that just seemed like the path for me. And also because it had, like, I just
like the letter R since it's in my name. So, that was also another factor I chose it. And yeah, it's,
there's a ton of sources online, especially for R, which I love. The community is awesome.
I used to go to meetups, the R user meetups, and watch things like this. And it's just crazy that
it's coming full circle that I'm on the other side now. So, go out there and connect and
continue learning. Datacamp is also an awesome tool that you can use to, you know, self-teach.
There's going to be a lot of self-teaching involved in data science,
even outside of, well, maybe that was because it was a few years back, there wasn't that much,
I think, push in data science as there is now. But man, yeah, there's just so much tools online.
Google, Stack Overflow is going to be your best friend. And if I were to tell myself,
or if I would help guide myself in the past, I'd probably say, I don't think ML again is,
ML and AI is a huge component into data science. And I guess it depends too on what industry you're
in. But I think if you can analyze data just fine, and you can program here and there,
you can really learn a lot of the other things, the domain knowledge at your job. So,
yeah, there's really data science everywhere. So, choose your domain, get good at it, and
you'll figure it out. How did you go about learning the domain knowledge?
Yeah, so my background, or my undergrad was in public health. I thought I knew clinical
research back then. I didn't. The biostats surrounding public health was something that
interested me. And I just enjoyed that class, those classes. And so, after that,
trying to immerse yourself in articles, in science. And my interest was in diabetes,
since I have a, since my mom is diabetic. And so, the domain knowledge, to go back to the question,
is, you'll get more familiar with it, I think, depending on where you go. And
from there, just apply your, whatever, like, skill set you have. And, yeah.
Thank you. Matt, I know in the beginning, when you were kind of covering the journey
for your team, you mentioned how things were so manual before, and it was like, actually,
and like, written down on paper. How has that shifted now? Like, can you kind of hold those
up side by side, or give us an example? Yeah. So, when we started the trial in 2014,
you had two parallel data paths. One was our patient-reported outcome piece. So,
the e-diary, where patients were reporting on their pain levels, and pain medication use,
and prosthetic use, if they had a prosthetic. Like, how many minutes in a day they would use it.
And then, at the same time, as you can imagine, these patients would come in for regular study
visits. So, when they would come in for study visits, they would also write the information
down. Our site coordinators would write it down on paper, case report forms. And so, that's kind
of the way it started for the first, for our first, like, 20 or so implanted, 20 to 40 implanted
patients. And then, when we got to around 2018 or so, we brought on our current vendor on the
electronic data capture side, and we changed everything over from paper to an electronic
database on the study visit side, while we still had the e-diary also working. So, you have two
parallel data paths. And what I'll do also, I think, we actually did a, I think one thing that
could be helpful for the group is, this whole data capture and analysis paradigm, we were actually
fortunate enough to get the methodology of that published recently in Discover Health Systems
Journal. So, I'll send a link to everybody. You can take a look and see kind of how that,
you know, it's got the diagrams from, you'll, made all the diagrams. So, it's got that, as well as
the system and the kind of methodology behind this was also patented. Because of the uniqueness
of the data capture, and because this had not been done before or seen before, we also were
awarded that as well, which was a big honor. So, Rachel, to kind of go back to that, 2018 comes
along, and we have a parallel path of an electronic database now, where site coordinators are entering
data in the computer into a database, and the patients were still reporting all their pain
information, their prosthetic use, their medication use on the e-diary every single day.
So, that's going on at the same time patients are coming in for visits.
And then that continued through 2021, when the trial, when our last patient
crossed their month three visit, and then 2022, when our last patient had their last
year visit. And so, then the challenge was, you've got those two data sources,
and then you've got the data that the patients were recording on the device,
as well, because there's these IPG logs, implantable pulse generator logs, that every
time they use the device, they're logging information there automatically. How do we
combine all of that to then do the analysis for that's allotted in the statistical analysis plan?
And basically, I was a lot of working with our CRO and developing a lot of rules and things within
the staff plan to then kind of combine that together. So, then that framework, when you
have all of that data, you then have a need to really automate and have more processing power
than just simple Excel. And don't get me wrong, I love Excel. But as we all know, probably there's
only so much that Excel can do in certain instances. So, with that being said, we realize
that we have a lot of this data. Jared's comment, yeah, I know. In spots, Excel can be a challenge.
Then you have that instance where you have all of this data, and if you need to cut
Excel or you need to cut the data, do different kinds of slices and all that kind of stuff,
it's much easier to have it stored in a database together, organized, different cuts and slices,
and be able to pull that into R and then be able to perform the analysis. So,
kind of became, Rachel, like a necessity was the mother of invention kind of thing for us,
where we had to move that way to be, again, effective for our patients, be effective for
the company. It had to move that way. So, now, moving ahead, we now have a better understanding
and a better framework, an internal framework, of being able to pull data together and then be
able to slice and dice how we want, when we want, to generate new insights. So, hopefully that
explains it. Yeah, thank you. I see, Ben, you asked a question in the chat a few minutes ago.
You want to jump in next? Yeah, I'll interrupt my snarkiness in the comments to ask the question.
Appreciate it. Hey, Matt, I'm having ongoing discussions with some internal folks and other
people in the industry who are looking to the low-code, no-code solutions that are
becoming more advanced in their applications. And it's, you know, taking some time to hit those
walls that we normally would hit, you know, 10 years ago in those environments to be more creative.
So, I'm curious, as you looked at it more recently as building that data team,
what would be your response to those who say you can run the entire workflow for data and the
analysis in those low-code, no-code solutions? It's easier to get more talent that way because
they're drag and drop. They don't have to know SQL or code. Just curious what your thoughts would
be on that. So, I think there's benefit to it, but I think the most, I think one of the most
important things that you get with people that have programmed, and they can, I think, as well
get that if they understand the flow, is you have a couple things. One is what's really important to
us as a data team is really having an in-depth understanding of how things work. And so,
you know, I think that's even the more important thing as well. I try the best I can
to be open to whatever tools, you know, would serve our team better for that.
But the one thing as well that's important, I think, is if, you know, for programming and things
like that, what it helps, at least it's for me, and Ramil can attest to this too, for me,
I believe that knowing how to program, for me, has helped me to better understand data analysis
and better understand the steps that needs to take to ensure that the analysis is more
accurate, that I've covered all of my bases. Because when I program, I'm thinking about
the steps logically in order and how that has to work. And so, I feel that that is a benefit.
But I also think, Ben, to your point that, you know, low-code, no-code tools can be very helpful.
I haven't personally looked into them a ton, I know a little bit, but I think they can certainly
be helpful. But as long as they're implemented correctly and the foundations are there and the
analysis is sound, I think that they could be of help, for sure. Ramil, I don't know if you have
any additional thoughts on that. Yeah, when I think of low-code, no-code, my mind immediately
goes to Excel. I guess you could argue if there's any coding there, but that's almost
kind of like a drag and drop, I guess. And I think the benefit in that is you have a programming
language that you can use to talk with folks that are more non-technical. And in some cases,
I think Excel is the – well, Excel is really used in, I think, most companies. I think you
can use that as a way to, you know, maybe generate your scripts in R and then
use Excel as a way to, you know, share data. It's kind of going backwards, but
you have that in your toolkit to use. And Excel is also awesome. So, yeah, shout out to Excel.
Shout out to Christian Bordeaux, too. He's helped me a ton with using Excel prior to NeurOS.
And yeah, Excel is – you can't really knock off Excel. I think it's a good low-code,
no-code tool to use.
Ben, to your question, Ramil made a really good point. One thing that we find in NeurOS – and
Rachel, we've – I know you've kind of mentioned this and had data leaders talk about this. I think
it's also important about meeting the customer where they are. And so, I've heard of many data
science people come on and talk about that. So, we know, too, in our company, there's a lot of
people that love working in Excel and want to kind of get their hands on data, too. So,
we'll provide data to them as well as in figures so they can play with the data as well and look
at things. Because we work with a lot of engineers, for instance, in R&D. They may not be,
you know, big in R, but they know how to work in Excel. So, it's kind of just, again, like Ramil
said, Excel is a great low-code, no-code solution. And it's a way that we can kind of also help
bridge the gap when we deliver data or insights to people across functionally as well. And it
really kind of helps us to be able to talk that language and allows them to get their, you know,
to be able to kind of look at things, especially for those that are the subject matter experts in
the area. They might be able to see something a little differently than we do, and they could say,
okay, I can change this or do this. And it can make the insights even more impactful. So.
Great answers. I appreciate you guys talking through that. And yeah, no bashing on the
low-code, no-code environment necessarily, but I was curious as far as team development and
just your go-to. So, appreciate you guys weighing in.
You're welcome.
Thank you. And I was going to say exactly what Ted just said in the chat. So, thanks for adding
that in there, Ted. But really good point about meeting people where they are as well. And when
you think about collaborating with people across the company, if that's working with them in Power
BI where they're used to or in Excel too. Chris, I see hands raised. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah. Can you hear me? Am I live?
Yep.
Okay. Or am I too loud? You jumped. My question with the low-code, no-code solutions,
do they lend themselves to anything like version control? Because when you're collaborating around
objects like that, I imagine in any environment where you want some kind of version safety that
I don't know if such solutions exist in the low-code, no-code space, like they do for code,
like having a GitHub repo or something like that. Does anyone have any thoughts there?
I've seen integrations with that and heard also they're becoming more advanced on that,
but it may not be necessarily a Git version control, but it does have some type of historical
information.
Okay. So if you have a group of folks collaborating around, other than Excel,
I'm not sure what the low-code, no-code looks like. So I'm speaking from some ignorance.
So excuse me there. But like folks gathered around these objects, they can roll back time,
so to speak, the way you can in a version control system?
There are some platforms like that. Yeah. And Excel is, I mean, low-code, but the low-code,
no-code solutions I'm thinking of are much more advanced as far as the modeling approaches and
backed up with some pretty heavy different model frameworks that you can run. But the key points,
I think, were definitely on skill sets and development and career objectives and just
how to develop that team. So yeah, but that's because we can go tit for tat across any type of
environment. And that's where I'm coming into the hurdle of anecdotally, I've seen it in my
experience. It's really created a different perspective of looking at data and also trying
to develop the skills in other people as they get creative with how to answer problems for clients.
But I was, yeah, curious. I'm in the marketing space, so it's obviously a different environment.
Gotcha. Thank you.
Yeah. Thank you all for the great discussion here. I know, Nathan, you asked a great question
a little bit earlier on, like, working with measures of pain. Do you want to jump in and ask
that? Nope. We can hear you. Am I going through? Yep. I can hear you. Great. Thanks. Yeah. I mean,
I was just curious. I work for the National Health Service in the UK, so I'm very familiar
with working with different clinical measures of how well someone is doing. And, you know,
you get things like your classic biomarkers, like body mass index, blood pressure, blood
cholesterol, tumour size, et cetera. But then when it comes to measures of how much pain people feel,
it's a lot less clear-cut how you measure that. And, you know, you might say it's a lot more
subjective. And I was curious as to whether that introduced any challenges in working with the data
or whether it added extra uncertainty to the model or maybe different types of
uncertainty that you had to deal with when you were creating your model.
Yeah. So typically for reporting pain, you have a handful of scales that you can do it on. There's
things like the visual analogue scale where patients will have a scale from zero to 100
millimetres or so, and they'll actually look at their pain on a millimetre scale and say how high
it is. We use the NRS zero to 10 scale. And as we worked, our goal with our patients was to really
kind of understand how they perceive their pain and also worked, you know, with them to help them
kind of understand how those scales work to help report more accurately. So ultimately though,
what the patients report is what we received. So in that kind of statement, that's really what it
is, is you get their pain scores and you try to work with them to help understand their pain,
you know, because somebody's seven, maybe somebody else is three, for instance. And so it's really
kind of working with the patient and kind of really understanding and saying, okay, as well,
I think our field staff did a really great job of this. We heard anecdotally about them
understanding the patients as well and saying, okay, you're saying your pain might be this level,
for instance, but look at how much more you're doing today. Is it really there, right? And kind
of working with the human factor to ensure that we were getting the most accurate reporting as we
could. But from the data team's point of view, what was reported is what, you know, we took for
the analysis. So we can't provide medical advice or anything like that. So it is what it is. And
that's kind of how that worked to ideally get as much high quality data as we could.
So I think that's really key what you've said there about making sure that everyone's seven
is a seven, you know, that sort of thing. And I think the approach that you took, you know,
working directly with each individual patient, so time consuming, so costly, so essential,
right? Because if you've got these numbers and, you know, some people are saying seven,
some people are saying three, but actually they're meaning the same thing, then, you know,
your analysis is doomed from the start, really, isn't it? But yeah, that's really great.
In terms of challenges, I think when we're working with pain,
it is subjective in nature. Like a person's seven might be a person's three. One of the challenges
is that since we're working with like pre and post measures, you can't, like dropping from a
10 to a seven might not be as equivalent to dropping from a three to a zero. So there's that
also is kind of an issue. So I think one solution to that is collecting a lot of data around that.
So whether that's like BPI or like questionnaires to support the quality of life questionnaires to
help support that, you know, whether decrease or increase in pain is a good kind of
a supplemental information apart from just your pain, basically.
Right. It's really great to have you working through these things. Thank you.
Really interesting. Thank you all for the great questions today. And as we get to the last
three minutes here, I was wondering if we could end on,
what is something that you're most excited about, both Matt and Ramil, as you think about the year ahead?
Ramil? I am excited about...
Let me think about this, Matt. You take it first.
I'm excited about the potential to really get this device into the hands of the patients that
need it the most. And really kind of help, again, to restore their, you know, restore their lives,
relieve their pain, and really kind of make a difference. For me, you know, on a personal note,
I got into Neuros really because my mother had suffered from chronic pain for 35 years.
And so this was one way that I felt like I could kind of use some of the technical expertise and a
way to kind of help people as well. So I'm excited about that potential, you know. And I'm excited to
continue to see our patients that still have the device doing well and kind of continuing to move
that. And, you know, the company, to Bill's question there, the company will, the data will develop based on the market needs, I think. There's a lot of stuff we can't, you know, discuss right now. But, you know, data will reflect that. So, if there is, you know, eventual approval for the device,
then data will go with it. And so it's an exciting time. So I'm excited, really, about the future of Neuros and really kind of helping these patients.
So, I'm excited, really, about the future of Neuros and really kind of helping these patients.
For myself, I think it's, apart from Neuros, or our device, being at the hands of an underserved
population, I'm excited to see how this data team will grow.
This is my first gig, and seeing it from the start and seeing this data team grow and myself
grow, I think it's something that's always exciting.
Thank you both so much for taking the time to join today.
I also love that this kind of came out of your team joining the Hangouts as well and
then reaching out to be a featured leader, and I love to see that full circle there,
too.
Yeah.
Well, we appreciate this a lot, and this isn't the right way, per se, to do it, but it's
one way, and we hope that it's helpful for people trying to navigate their way through
clinical data science number one and kind of in their own situations and what can be
done with this.
So, we're just happy to be here.
Well, thank you so much for sharing your experience with us, and thank you for all that you do.
Have a great rest of the day, everybody.